.\" man page for the pcpustat utility.
.Dd August 24, 2010
.Dt ISSPAM 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm isspam
.Nd Bayesian spam detection utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dnpsvwy
.Op Fl c Ar count
.Op Fl f Ar database
.Op Fl m Ar maxphrase
.Op Fl M Ar maxsize
.Op Ar file...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The isspam utility provides a command-line interface to the IsSpam Ruby class, which performs Bayesian filtering on potential spam, in a manner very similar to the approach described in Paul Graham's essay "A Plan for Spam" <http://www.paulgraham.com/spam.html>.
This utility can take incoming messages either on stdin or as file arguments.  The input may contain multiple messages, which will be distinguished by a Unix "from" header (/^From /).  Thus, you can use an entire mail folder (in mbox format) as input, or individual messages.
The
.Op Fl dnpsy
options are mutually exclusive.  Incoming messages may be treated as spam, not spam, or be tested for spam.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Fl c, count Ar count
Specify the maximum number of most significant phrases to use in computing spam probability.  The default is 15, use -1 for all phrases.
.It Fl d, dump
Dump all database content to stdout.
.It Fl f, file Ar database
Specify the database to use (default is ~/.isspam.db).  The database will be created if it does not exist.
.It Fl m, max Ar maxphrase
Specify the maximum phrase length to test (default is 3).  Applies only to the
.Op Fl p
and
.Op Fl w
options.
.It Fl M, Maxsize Ar maxsize
Specify the maximum size of messages to process.  Any larger messages will be skipped.  Default is no maximum.
.It Fl n, no
Treat all input as not spam, and update the database accordingly.
.It Fl p, probability
Prints the probability that the input is spam to stdout.
.It Fl s, stats
Dump general statistics to stdout.
.It Fl v, verbose
Generates more output, including the path to the database and progress through messages.
.It Fl w, wordstats
Dump word-specific and phrase-specific stats to stdout.
.It Fl y, yes
Treat all input as spam, and update the database accordingly.
.Sh SEE ALSO
RDoc documentation for IsSpam (included).
.Sh AUTHOR
Sterling (Chip) Camden <sterling@camdensoftware.com>
.Sh WWW
<http://chipstips.com/?tag=rbisspam>
.Sh BUGS
None known.
